now police in the US have arrested
students at an encampment at the
University of California in Irvine in
support of a ceasefire in Gaza hundreds
of students at the campus closed off a
lecture hall on Wednesday University of
California Irvine is one of many
colleges across the country where
protesters have been demanding that
schools divest from Israeli companies
let's get the latest with Rob Reynolds
who joins us now live from the
University of California in Irvine so
Rob bring us up to speed with the
situation on the University grounds
what's the
latest well Folly there's not much to
see now uh but earlier today this was
yet another American college campus
where police were called in to forcibly
uh disperse and uh dismantle a Gaza
solidarity student protest uh this began
uh several hours ago when students uh
occupied a science lecture hall on
campus uh a adjacent to their encampment
uh hundreds of police then descended on
the campus they dismantled the
encampment uh uh destroyed the tents and
uh cleared the building then uh police
moved remaining protesters uh after
arresting I should say uh several dozen
we don't know exactly how many uh
protesters were arrested but they were
uh taken into custody with the uh now
familiar PL plastic zip ties and taken
away by police l
police uh uh gathered the remaining
protesters uh behind a police line and
uh dispers them onto a large open area
on campus uh declaring that they
constituted an unlawful assembly warning
them that they would be arrested or even
subject to uh non-lethal force uh most
of those protesters then filtered away
as police Advanced and police have now
um begun uh leaving the campus we're
seeing small groups of them pass from
time to time and campus uh maintenance
workers are just now sweeping up uh the
last of the uh remains of the encampment
the uh Gaza protest signs the
handlettered placards uh the uh other
materials there putting them into
garbage cans and taking them away PA
we're also hearing Rob that a strike has
been authorized by University employees
yes that's right uh student employees of
the University these are people who are
student teachers who teach undergrads uh
researchers who work in the Research
Laboratories uh other uh workers in
various capacities all of whom are uh
organized uh under the uh the uh a a
union the uh United Auto Workers Union
as it as it happens to be and there are
48,000 of them and they play a vital
role uh in uh running the campus
uh of the 10 University of California um
uh campuses so uh they have authorized
the strike as of today it's Wednesday
evening here in California uh we don't
know exactly when the walk out will take
place but the workers say that their
rights were violated by the suppression
of the uh Palestinian Pro Palestinian
Gaza solidarity uh protests on the
various campuses uh and they say that
their goal is to sew maximum chaos on
campus volie Rob thank you very much for
the update that's Al jazer as Rob
Reynolds reporting their live from the
University of California at
oine and students at the University of
Florida in Gainesville have also been
demonstrating against the war in Gaza
that's despite the University's orders
not to Alan Fischer is on the campus in
Gainesville this gives you an example of
just how widespread the protests have
been on college campuses in the United
States you've heard about the big
schools like George Washington in
Columbia in New York but here is the
University of Florida right in the
center of the state and here there've
been protests for weeks this has become
what they call a Liberation Zone where
people have been sitting out 24 hours a
day since the protest began a number of
weeks ago there have been arrests and
the college has made things difficult
for them but they are still here still
making a point and on the day that the
Palestinians commemorate Naka they felt
it was important to be here
today marks uh 76 years since the Nea
which is which was basically the
initiation of the ethnic cleansing the
genocide of the Palestinians and over
the past 7 months we've seen really the
escalation of that with what's happening
in GZA what's happening inza for the
past 7 months amounts to essentially
just the next stage of that genocide
that has been you know ongoing for
nearly 8 decades now the students here
have been asked how long the protest
will last and they say well as long as
the war in Gaza goes on and until the
University of Florida discloses what
investments it has in the defense
industry and its links with Israel and
it agrees to divest to remove all those
links Alan fiser Al jaer in Gainesville
at the University of
Florida make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer